website/docs: Add docs for oauth2 back-channel logout (#15845)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/oauth2/backchannel-logout.mdx

---

## Overview

Back-channel logout is a security feature defined in the [OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html). It allows an OpenID Provider (OP) like authentik to notify Relying Parties (RPs) when a user session ends, ensuring that all connected applications properly terminate the user's session.

:::warning
Your OAuth application (Relying Party) must explicitly support the OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification to handle back-channel logout requests. Not all OAuth applications support this feature.
:::

## How Back-Channel Logout Works

When a user logs out *or* their session is terminated in authentik, the following events occur:

1. **Session Termination**: The user's session is ended (via logout flow, admin action, or token revocation).
2. **Provider Notification**: authentik identifies all OAuth2 providers that have active sessions with the user.
3. **Back-Channel Request**: HTTP POST requests are sent to each provider's configured back-channel logout URI.
4. **RP Processing**: Each Relying Party validates the logout token and terminates the user's local session.

## Configuration

> ### Setting Up Back-Channel Logout

Reviewer: The other thing in our Style Guide is that we don't use the "gerund" form of a noun... that is, not the "-ing" form.

1. Navigate to **Applications** > **Providers**.
2. Edit or create an OAuth2 provider.
3. Enter the back-channel logout endpoint URL provided by your Relying Party in the **Back-channel Logout URI** field.

> ### Back-Channel Logout URI Format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Back-channel logout URI format
```

---

> title: OAuth2 Back-Channel Logout

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: OAuth2 Back-Channel Logout
```

Shouldn't it be OIDC rather than OAuth2? Maybe a distinction that doesn't need to be made

Reviewer: I agree, since it looks like it is indeed OIDC being used (on top of OAuth2). And we need to change the capitalization to match our other titles/Style Guide... only first word is capitalized unless a proper noun or acronym.

description: Configure back-channel logout for OAuth2/OpenID Connect providers
authentik_version: "2025.8.0"
authentik_preview: true
---

## Overview

Back-channel logout is a security feature defined in the [OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html). It allows an OpenID Provider (OP) like authentik to notify Relying Parties (RPs) when a user session ends, ensuring that all connected applications properly terminate the user's session.

:::info
**Important**: Your OAuth application (Relying Party) must explicitly support the OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification to handle back-channel logout requests. Not all OAuth applications support this feature.
:::

## How Back-Channel Logout Works

> When a user logs out or their session is terminated in authentik:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user logs out *or* their session is terminated in authentik, the following events occur:
```

---
title: OAuth2/OpenID Connect back-channel logout
description: Configure back-channel logout for OAuth2/OpenID Connect providers
authentik_version: "2025.8.0"
authentik_preview: true
---

## Overview

> Back-channel logout is a security feature defined in the [OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html). It allows an OpenID Provider (OP) like authentik to notify Relying Parties (RPs) when a user session ends, ensuring that all connected applications properly terminate the user's session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Back-channel logout is a security feature defined in the [OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-backchannel-1_0.html). It allow an OpenID Provider (OP), such as authentik, to notify Relying Parties (RPs) when a user session ends. This ensures that all associated applications can properly terminate the user's session, even without direct user interaction.
```

Reviewer 3: also, mabye "when a user session ends" vs "when a user's session ends"

:::warning

> Your OAuth application (Relying Party) must explicitly support the OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification to handle back-channel logout requests. Not all OAuth applications support this feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your OAuth application (Relying Party) must explicitly support the OpenID Connect Back-Channel Logout 1.0 specification to properly handle back-channel logout requests. Not all OAuth applications support this feature, so compatibility should be verified.
```

:::

## How back-channel logout works

> When a user logs out _or_ their session is terminated in authentik, the following events occur:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When a user logs out _or_ their session is otherwise terminated in authentik, the following events occur:
```

> 1. **Session Termination**: The user's session is ended (via logout flow, admin action, or token revocation).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. **Session Termination**: The user's session is ended through the logout flow, an administrative action, or token revocation.
```

> 2. **Provider Notification**: authentik identifies all OAuth2 providers that have active sessions with the user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. **Provider Notification**: authentik identifies all OAuth2 providers with active sessions for the user.
```

3. **Back-Channel Request**: HTTP POST requests are sent to each provider's configured back-channel logout URI.

> 4. **RP Processing**: Each Relying Party validates the logout token and terminates the user's local session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. **RP Processing**: Each Relying Party processes the request, validates the logout token, and terminates the user's local session.
```
